#summary A quick guide to setting up an environment to develop on open-sapi
#labels Featured
<wiki:toc max_depth="1" />
----
= Introduction =

Currently I am using Ubuntu 8.10. This is a standard installation using the default wine and pulseaudio versions. Currently this setup works but is not perfect. I have had problem with pulseaudio crashing which freezes the desktop. This i blame on my lack of error handling in my code so far and a little bit to do with wine and pulseaudio all together. :)

In theory any Linux distribution should work as long as you can get wine working on it with sound. There is no requirement for pulseaudio just that you can get sound from wine. A more reliable audio system or an updated pulseaudio is highly recommend as this issue is a pain.
----
= Downloading the Source =

If you are keen to help out and want to contribute please visit the JoiningIn page on the wiki. There it gives details on how to become a project member and how to setup the SVN for a project member.


For everyone else you can continue to download the svn in read only mode.

You will need to download the sources from svn. This will provide you with all the tools and scripts that are needed to create a working development system. Make sure you are in the directory where you want the files to be downloaded before running the svn command.

If you are not sure you have svn installed run.

{{{
sudo apt-get install subversion
}}}

Then download the source files and tools from the project page.

Please note that if you plan to become an active developer and do not have svn experience then i recommend you register on the project first obtain a username and password before proceeding with an svn download. Please mail thomas lloyd at yahoo dot com to register.
 
{{{
svn checkout http://open-sapi.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/open-sapi
}}}

Please note Google Code is not the fastest at downloading and takes about ten minutes to get the whole project, (approx 37 Megabytes). 

This should leave you in a position where you have everything ready to go about configuring the system for speech.
----
=Automatic Installation - Debian / Ubuntu=

If you are using Ubuntu and possibly Debian derived distros you can use the automated script to install and configure the system. Please can people e-mail any instructions and experiences they get with other distributions.

To start the installation using a terminal navigate to the installer folder in the local svn repository on your system.

In this folder you will find a script called osapi.run please execute this file.

Code:
{{{
~/open-sapi/installer/./osapi.run
}}}

For the package installation it requires sudo access and will ask for your password and then proceed to download and configure your system. If you want to know what i does see the manual process below.

This completes your setup please see the DeveloperStartup page for details on starting speech dispatcher, configuring wine, running the server, client and their options. 
----
=Manual Installation - All Operating Systems=

These instructions are Debian / Ubuntu specific but you should not find it too hard to lookup the basics for another distro. Please add comments about your experiences and if possible post instructions.

1. Install all the packages, please note there is no problem with asking to install again as it will just ignore the packages that already exist on the system:

{{{
sudo apt-get install wine speech-dispatcher python-speechd wget tcl svn orca wget
}}}

2. Download the files that you need to setup wine using wget:

{{{
wget http://code.google.com/p/open-sapi/source/browse/trunk/open-sapi/installer/winetricks
}}}

3. Run the winetricks installer. Note you may have have to make this file executable

{{{
chmod 770 winetricks
./winetricks sapi51 vcrun6
}}}

4. If you have not already downloaded the source files please do now. They are configured in such a way that they will run the scripts for both client and server without any more setup.

Please note that if you plan to become an active developer and do not have svn experience then i recommend you register on the project first obtain a username and password before proceeding with an svn download. Please mail thomas lloyd at yahoo dot com to register.
 
{{{
svn checkout http://open-sapi.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/open-sapi
}}}

This completes your setup please see the DeveloperStartup page for details on starting speech dispatcher, configuring wine, running the server, client and their options.     
----